Music Live Stream Tools
=======================

Tools made for live streaming music specifically on YouTube, but could be
modified to work on other platforms.

These tools are meant to be run on a headless (no gui) setup on a Unix or
Unix-like machine.  I'm currently using them on SmartOS but they should work on
pretty much any distro of Linux, MacOS, BSD, or whatever.

Requirements
------------

- `bash`
- `ffmpeg`
- Run these tools out of this directory - they are bash scripts that source
  files using relative locations.

Tools
-----

### `get-subscriber-count`

Get YouTube subscriber count (approximate) for a given channel id or name.

    Usage: get-subscriber-count <channel> [file] [interval]

Examples

With a single argument, the output is written to stdout:

    $ ./get-subscriber-count bahamas10
    2.93K subscribers

With a second argument, the output is written (atomically) to the file:

    $ ./get-subscriber-count bahamas10 foo.txt
    $ cat foo.txt
    2.93K subscribers

With a third argument, the output will is written (atomically) to the
file infinitely at the given interval:

    $ ./get-subscriber-count bahamas10 foo.txt 5
    [2021-09-04T21:02:17-0400] 2.93K subscribers - file=foo.txt sleeping for 5
    [2021-09-04T21:02:22-0400] 2.93K subscribers - file=foo.txt sleeping for 5

---

### `shuffle-and-loop-music`

Shuffle a directory full of mp3s and stream them to a given fifo pipe
continuously.  Allows for new tracks to be added without needing to restart this
process.

    Usage: shuffle-and-loop-music <mp3-dir> <pipe> [now-playing]

Examples

Shuffle the mp3 directory and output the raw data to the given pipe, and
optionally update the now-playing file with the current file name playing:

    $ ./shuffle-and-loop-music ../music/ ../pipes/audio-pipe ../data/now-playing.txt
    [2021-09-04T20:50:08-0400] beginning loop
    [2021-09-04T20:50:08-0400] playing 02-transpose-19.mp3

And in another terminal:

    $ cat ../data/now-playing.txt
    02-transpose-19.mp3

---

### `stream-to-youtube`

The main program to stream to YouTube.  This program is responsible for:

- Reading in a looping background movie (`-b`)
- Reading in a continuous stream of music through a fifo (`-a`)
- Writing the current subcount (any text in `-t`, using font `-f`) to the output
  video
- Streaming the output video to YouTube (using `-k` with the stream key data)

    Usage: stream-to-youtube [options] [output]

    Options:
      -a <fifo>      required: pipe to read audio input from (generated by shuffle-and-loop-music)
      -b <file.mp4>  required: background video, should match resolution set in this program (1920x1080)
      -f <font.ttf>  required: font file to use for drawing text
      -k <key.txt>   optional: youtube stream key in a text file, optional if output is set to stdout for testing
      -t <text.txt>  required: text file to read text to render to the video - updated dynamically

    Arguments
      - Specifying '-' as the last argument will tell this program to output to stdout instead of
        streaming to youtube.  This can then be piped to ffplay for testing like:

          stream-to-youtube ... - | ffplay -f flv -

More options can be customized inside the script itself.  Specifying `-` as the
last argument will tell this program to output to stdout instead of streaming to
YouTube.  This can then be piped to `ffplay` for testing like:

    stream-to-youtube ... - | ffplay -f flv -

---

### `mp3-to-raw`

Convert an mp3 to a raw format (s16le PCM 2 channel 44100hz sample) and output
it to stdout.  This tool is used by `shuffle-and-loop-music` and shouldn't need
to be called directly.

    Usage: mp3-to-raw <mp3-file>

Example:

    $ ./mp3-to-raw file.mp3 > output.pcm

License
-------

MIT License
